---
layout: default
title: About
type: INFO
---
# Big Data Resources

### CSUMB Spring 2016 Capstone Project

This website was created with the hope that it would provide a resource to get started with big data. Hopefully it will shorten the amount of time it takes for future students to get up to speed, and start research of their own.  It is part of a senior capstone project at California State University at Monterey Bay, in collaboration with the Naval Postgraduate School.

A lot of the material found here references other sources.  It is what we found most important to our understanding of concepts, and implementation.  Hopefully you find the organization, links, and summary of information useful. 

Figuring out what Hadoop and MapReduce actually are, is a good way to start down this path.  The Learning Resources tab has a few good resources for that, plus a static website generator discussion.

### Learning Resources

 - **Cloudera** has a free virtual machine image that can be downloaded.  Wordcount is explained in great detail on their site.  We cover how to get the VM up and running, and provide links to a few sites that will come in handy.   

 - **Website** - Making the Jekyll website for this documentation was a great learning experience.  Install Jekyll, download the template, and start customizing.  Jekyll generates .html pages by using javascript, css, and text pages with a mix of markdown and HTML. 

  - **Udacity** has a great, free course called *Intro to Hadoop and MapReduce*.  Big ideas, links, and advice are included.

### Services

 - **Streaming** and **Sqoop** - We have brief exposure to these tools, and share what we learned.
 
### Installation

 - **Oracle**, **Hadoop** and **Ambari** - Detailed instructions for installation.

### MapReduce

 - Start with Sales Records Python to get the basics, then check out two labs from the Naval Postgraduate School, Wordcount Java and Reduce Join Java. Finally, revel at the simplicity of the python mapper and reducer in Wordcount.

Questions or comments?

<a href="mailto:csumbbigdata@gmail.com">Send us an email</a>